She was born in Budapest in 1937. Her family called her Judit.
For one year of her life, in a convent on Stefánia Street, she was called Ilona.
She lives in Canada today. She is called Judy.
This is what one year of carrying two names can look like, in the words and geography of a real child who survived.
Judit Grünfeld was born on April 28, 1937, to a Hungarian Jewish family in Budapest.
Her parents, Renée and László, lived in the Pest district.
Her mother used affectionate Hungarian nicknames for her: Jutka, Juditka. The kind of small, ordinary words a child carries through her whole life.
For seven years, this is who she was. A child in a city. A name her family used.
A grandmother. An aunt. Streets she knew by heart.
In March 1944, German forces occupied Hungary.
Within weeks the Hungarian government required all Jews aged six and older to wear the yellow star.
By mid-May, mass deportations of Hungarian Jews to Auschwitz had begun.
With the help of Mária Babar, a devout Catholic who had previously worked for the family,
Judy's parents arranged for her to be hidden by the Ursuline nuns.
Her father obtained forged identity papers in the name Ilona Papp.
The convent was on Stefánia Street, near the Városliget city park.
The Ursuline Mother House. A working Catholic school with long stone corridors, classrooms, a chapel, dormitories.
Judy was seven. She had to memorize a different life.
Her name was now Ilona Papp. She was from a small village in the Hungarian countryside.
Her parents were away during the war. She was Catholic. She knew Hail Mary and Our Father.
She did not know Yiddish. She did not know Hebrew. She did not know the names Judit, Jutka, or Juditka.
For almost a year, this was the cover.
The nuns ran the convent on a bell schedule. Prayer at fixed hours.
Children walked in lines from dormitory to refectory to chapel. The Latin Mass was sung at sunrise.
Beyond the convent walls, military trucks moved through the city.
In autumn 1944, as Allied bombing intensified, the Ursulines relocated Judy and other boarding students to Pincehely,
a small town in Tolna County in southwestern Hungary.
The displacement was brief but it removed her from the city at the most dangerous moment of the Hungarian deportations.
On October 15, 1944, the Hungarian fascist Arrow Cross party took control of Budapest.
Curfew sirens. Loudspeakers mounted on lamp posts broadcasting new orders. Snow was beginning.
Judy was still Ilona in the village. She was still Judit when no one else was listening.
Soviet forces liberated Pest on January 18, 1945.
Buda was liberated on February 13. Judy was reunited with her mother.
Both of her parents survived. They had been deported to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp as so-called exchange Jews,
held by the SS for possible ransom, and were liberated and reunited with Judy after the war.
In 1949, the family emigrated to Montreal. Judy was twelve. She grew up in Canada.
She became a French teacher at the United Nations International School in New York City.
In 2011, the Azrieli Foundation Holocaust Survivor Memoirs Program published her memoir, Tenuous Threads.
She was 74 years old.
In 1994, Yad Vashem recognized Mária Babar, the family's caretaker who arranged Judy's hiding,
as one of the Righteous Among the Nations.
The names in Judy's story go forward, by the record, by name.
Judit Grünfeld. Renée. László.
Mária Babar. Ilona Papp, who kept her alive for almost a year.
Judy Abrams, who carried all of them into a memoir.
Both kinds of carrying matter.